Gas costs depends on exactly four things during execution.

One is the transaction data that was sent.

Two is the amount of memory that was used.

Three is the state changes that took place.

Four is the opcodes that were executed.

And differnet opcodes have different gas costs, at the end of this course, you'll know the bad design patterns that you should be avoiding, you'll know how to discover novel gas saving solutions on your own.

And you'll recognize quickly when inefficiencies exist.

In my opinion, mastering Ethereum development requires three areas that you should be really good at.

One is knowing what really good design patterns are like.

Two is security.

Three is optimizing gas costs.

This course focuses on NO.3, with the right structure understanding and mastering gas costs is not that difficult.

So by the end of this course, you'll be well on your way to becoming a solidity expert.



## Subtitle


Hello and welcome to the course.

My name is Geoffrey and I'll be your instructor.

I got my graduate degree in theoretical computer science and then worked at a big tech company for six years.

For the past six months, I've been doing blockchain development full time and this course is something I wish I had back then.

Solidity is not a difficult language to understand, but understanding and optimizing gas costs can

feel very unfamiliar.

Unless you've worked in a strange domain like embedded systems programming or high frequency trading

in domains like these, seemingly trivial optimizations matter a lot, and that is the case in solidity,

two.

If you haven't had that kind of experience before, it can be difficult to do a knowledge transfer.

Ethereum is a funny platform.

It's easy to create a smart contract, but it's difficult to do it well.

To understand the basis of gas cost, there are two not so great ways that I could teach this course.

One way is to walk you through the yellow paper so that you have all of the foundational knowledge that you need.

But the problem with that is that it would be very boring and hard to stay focused.

The flip side is to be completely practical and just give you a long list of tips and tricks that you

could use right away.

But then you might have a difficult time transferring the knowledge that you learn to an unfamiliar

application.

This course attempts to take the middle ground.


We will be covering theory, but it will be motivated by examples and will be actually stepping through


the code and not just reading a bunch of formulas.


Gas costs depends on exactly four things during execution.


One is the transaction data that was sent to is the amount of memory that was used.


Three is the state changes that took place.


And four is the upgrades that were executed.


And different upgrades have different gas costs.


If you don't know what an upgrade is, don't worry.


We'll discuss that later.


At the end of this course, you'll know the bad design patterns that you should be avoiding.


You'll know how to discover novel gas saving solutions on your own.


And you'll recognize quickly when inefficiencies exist.


This is an advanced course.


It's not an introduction to solidity.


I'm not going to be introducing opens, upland libraries or telling you how to use the remix idea.


These are things that you should know already if you haven't already created a simple, smart contract


like an ERC 20 token or an NFT.


Then maybe you should do that first before you proceed.


This is not a course for beginners, but it's not a course for experts either.


My goal is to help you get from around beginner intermediate to advanced intermediate.


In my opinion, mastering Ethereum development requires three areas that you should be really good at.


One is knowing what really good design patterns are like to security, and three is optimizing gas costs.


This course focuses on number three with the right structure.


Understanding and mastering gas costs is not that difficult.


So by the end of this course, you'll be well on your way to becoming a solidity expert.


I'm really happy you joined and the customers who use your smart contract application will definitely


thank you.