In an earlier video, I put some code inside of an unchecked block saying that it would simplify the opcodes. That was when we were reviewing that smart contract that looks something like x=3, and then it had a function which returned x+1 and I put it inside of an unchecked block like this. In this video, I want to understand what the significance of this unchecked block is, and why it exists, and why it simplifies the opcodes and can be useful sometimes. 

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

pragma solidity ^0.7.6;

contract UnderAndOverflow {

    uint8 myNumber = 100;

    function add156() external view returns(uint8) {
        return myNumber + 156;
    }

    function subtract101() external view returns(uint8) {
        return myNumber - 101;
    }

}
```

Prior to solidity 8.0, there was a security vulnerability inside of math, you.. if you added numbers to bigger than what their big representation could hold, it would spin around the number zero. So if you are using a uint8 number, it stores 8 bits and that means it can't store a number bigger than 255. So an 8-bit number would represent zero this way (0000_0000), it's all zeros and 1 would be represented like this (0000_0001), 3 would be represented like this (0000_0011) and a 7 would be represented like this (0000_0111) and so forth. The biggest number you can get out of this is 255. That's when all of the bits are set to 1 (1111_1111). So what happens if you try to represent a number bigger than 255? Well, **if you were using maybe something like uint16 or uint32 or something much bigger, then if you start with 255 and add 1 to it, then it would just simply set the more significant bit to one and put the following ones to zero** (255的二进制1111_1111加1变成1_0000_0000). Okay, no surprises there. But that can't (can?) happen when you're limited to a fixed number of bits. And bits intrinsically have to be fixed because you can't store an infinite number of bits on a computer.

So what will happen when we add 100 to 156? That's going to try to represent a number bigger than 255. So prior to solidity 8.0, what would happen is: it would overflow. So we get a 0 back over here because behaves as if it was adding a more significant bit at the end and flipping the rest to zero. But this significant bit over here doesn't fit inside of 8. The same thing happens in the opposite direction. If we start with 100 and subtract 101, then you can't represent negative one with an unsigned integer. So it's going to spin back around and become 255. So these are clearly wrong and can lead to unexpected behaviors inside of a smart contract. 

How do they fix that in solidity 8.0? It is to check if the outcome makes sense. So whenever you add a number, it should always be bigger than the original term you are adding it to. And when you subtract a number it should always be smaller. So using that check, well, I have to change the compiler version, excuse me, then, at the bytecode level, the smart contract can detect if something funny happens. So when I compile this in 0.8.0 and I deploy this new contract and I run it, it actually doesn't give me a return value back because it reverted. This transaction has been reverted to its initial state.