In order to create a smart contract, we're going to need some ethereum to pay the gas to deploy it. However, we don't want to use real ethereum for this exercise, because that can be quite expensive. Instead, what we're going to do is use a test network, so open your metamask account and you want to hit the drop down over here and click show hide test networks, and this will show you the other test networks that are available, ropstein, coven, rinkby and gourley. Now some of these networks are easier to acquire test ether than others, so for the purpose of this exercise, I'm going to use the coven test network.

This is what we have here so make sure you go to faucets.chain.link in order to acquire some coven. Ethereum click, connect, wallet and hit meta mask hit next connect and you have the option to obtain 0.1 test ethereum. We don't need any link and we also need to check that. We are not a robot send request and we will wait for this transaction to complete. Okay, the transaction has completed, and when we open our meta mask, we will see that we have 0.1 ethereum this, of course, is Kovan Ethereum, not real Ethereum.

Now, let's create the actual smart contract. We will go to remix.ethereum.org, we will click contracts and do my contract dot sol. Okay. What are we going to put in here? Well, this contract can just be something that users store a message to, and other users can read it. The first thing we need to do is specify the solidity version. Pragma solidity 0.8.7 this I picked 0.8.7, because this is what remix defaults to.

If remix happens to be using another version, just pick that. Now to create the actual smart contract, we're going to say, contract messages, and this you can think of as sort of being like a class in java or a similar language. We will need a variable to hold our message and we will make it empty for now. Next, we will create a function that allows us to set this string. This will look quite familiar. We will need to add arguments here that will contain the message that we are setting inside of our variable and we will set the variable. Don't worry if you don't understand what this calldata is. This is something you will learn about later in solidity, but it's specific to the data type of string.

Next, we will create a function that gets the message, and this is a view function, because it's only looking at the state of the variable, it's not altering it like the other function is, and it will return a type string memory now. I know this memory keyword here might be a little bit unintuitive, but the way solidity's architected is that strings are not stored on the stack. They are kept either in storage or memory or passed as arguments to a function. Don't worry about this technicality for now. We will simply return the message. Now we will click on the solidity symbol and hit, compile it's giving us a warning, because we have not specified a license, but that really doesn't matter we're going to keep going. Make sure that javascript vm is selected and hit deploy. This is only deploying it inside of a simulated environment in the browser. It's not really deploying it on any blockchain. If we get the message we're just going to get an empty string back, but if we set the message to hello metaverse, we set it and we get it and it comes back this way. We can also leave something more ominous like this, and the code behaves the way we expect it to okay. This is only running inside of our local environment.

Here we want to actually deploy it to the coven test network, so we will hit the drop down here and hit injected web 3. This displays the coven network. This is what we got the original ethereum for, so that we can deploy it there, so we will hit deploy and metamask will pop up. We have to pay this ethereum gas fee to deploy the contract and we hit confirm if you click view on ether. Scan you'll have to wait a while for this transaction to show up. But I want you to note that this is coven.etherscan.io, not the regular ether scan, because again we are using covan ethereum network, not the mainnet, ethereum, okay, the transaction has succeeded and we can see the contract over here now. We cannot interact with a contract right now because the smart contract has not been verified, so let's go ahead and do that we used a single file and we used solidity 0.8.7 the license type. There isn't any and we will agree to the terms of service and continue. Now we will paste the code. We had earlier into this box over here again verify that we are not a robot and publish it. This has been successfully verified. Now, let's go back to our contract. When someone reads the contract, it's going to be empty because the string has not been set.

However, we can initiate a an ethereum transaction to set the message in this interface now, so, let's connect to web3 use metamask and hit next click it again and it connects under set message. Let's put jeff was here, and this is an actual ethereum transaction- that's being written to the blockchain, which is why we have to spend a little bit of gas and confirm it in metamask. If you look under data of what's being sent, this is what the function argument is. Jeff was here. So let's confirm it will take some time for this transaction to confirm so we will have to wait for it and it has confirmed so. Let's go back to read, contract refresh this page. We click get message and it says jeff was here and we can repeat this process and anyone can go to this particular address and write to the contract. They would have to specifically go to coven.etherscan.io. So we could repeat this process with the real ethereum main net. Simply by going back to metamask and going to the ethereum main net and repeating the process. Now I don't have any real ethereum inside of this wallet and this would have to be filled up and we'd have to pay for the gas which will cost real money. But other than that, the process is exactly the same.