I do want to talk about certificates at some point but kind of the way that the certificates work is that they have these really important digital signatures at the bottom and they kind of underpin the whole thing.

So bob did a video already on public key cryptography which is a really good watch and you should definitely check that out so if you recall in public key you have a public key and you have a private key and they're kind of inverse of one another so you can encrypt with one and decrypt the other one.

So I can for example if you have a public key I can encrypt something with it and send it to you but actually we don't tend to do that very often, we could do that but encryption with something like rsa is not that quick and for very long messages becomes a little bit impractical, there are other reasons as well in terms of the fact that we use these keys for very long time and people prefer to rotate keys more often, so these days for actual encryption what we would tend to do is just encrypt things using something like aes and symmetric keys.

So you use this kind of thing to verify who you are and then move on and establish something else?

Yeah, that's exactly right, the way that we use something like rsa or the other signature schmes is going to be that we verify the identity of one of the people in the conversation and then we revert to regular symmetric cryptography and we'll have done a key exchange or something like this.
I mean we talked about this in the tls(transport layer security) video.

So part of tls is a certificate and a digital signature and it only forms a part of the handshake after which we just consider that done and then we move on.

So what is a digital signature, that's I suppose that's the first question.

In my head I've got this idea of kind of like a bitmap 8-bit version of signing your name, right?

I mean there are obviously lots of cryptographic thing that we have to tick off right to make sure it's not forgable but the idea is that I have a document or a message or something that I want to send you and I want to prove that it was me that sent it, and so to do that I'm going to use my private key to sign a digital signature and basically what you're going to do on your end is verify that signature and verify that it was actually me that encypted it that that's the idea.

So when we perform this process what we tend to think of is the person that's doing the signing and the person that's doing the verfication, right now I might nod to something like this but really this applies to any signature scheme.

So we have the signer over here and we have the verifier over here.

Is that a haste verifier?

I think so, yeah.

We've got some document of something like this or message, for now let's not worry about how long it is or what it is, right?

It could be a letter, it could be you know a mortage(?) application, it could just be part of a tls handshake message it's not really important.

Now this document is not currently encrypted and we're going to send it over to the verifier like this as part of our conversation.

Now the problem with that is there could be someone in the middle changing this document forging it, this could be a fake document you know we don't know that it's come from me this is over the internet and so when you send something over the internet you can't guarantee that someone hasn't changed something or done something they shouldn't be doing.

Now if we had an encrypted connection where we knew we each had a key that would help but we've still got the issue of how do you do this when you establish the key and during the initial handshake and things like this.

So digital signatures form a big part of these kind of systems because at the beginning, at least you're going to have to prove one of the identities at least, otherwise you're going to be finding no one knows who anyone else is and that's going to be a huge problem.

Okay, so what the signer is going to do is create a digital signature so they're going to take the document and we'll just simplify for a minute and then we'll build up a little bit of information in a while and they're going to encrypt it with their private key and this is basically exactly like bob descirbed.

So this will form a signature, now they're the only ones that could have done that, because they're the only ones that have the private key, right? Otherwise none of this works, right? If they've got to do it that way they then send the signature over to the verifier over the internet and verifier can perform this verification process so they can basically say, well, ok, what if we take this signature and we decrypt it with the public key, so this is the signature here what if we do take this and we decrypt it with the public key because remember they reverse one another and then we can sort of work out whether the document and the signature match, right? Because if it was the original document that was encrypted using a private key that original document is going to pop back out again and then we can verify that that's actually taken place.

If that's a big document isn't this a bit wasteful because you know if it's gigabytes like the video files that I might send is that not a bit wasteful too...

That's a huge problem, right? which is what I've oversimplified it and everyone watching the video who knows about this is going to be like when is he going to talk about hashing, right? Now, now we're going to talk about hashing, this is an oversimplification because the problem is that this document could be any length and it's a problem if it's very very long but it's also a problem if it's very very short, if your document is literally the number one, the encryption using rsa of that with any key is also one, right? As a sort of contrived example, right?

So signature schemes like rsa don't work well when you have very very short messages and we start to run into problems of computational efficiency and the fact that you're going to have to split the message up and sign multiple bits and then they can be reordered and there's all kinds of attacks that you can run on this.
So this isn't going to quite work, right? we want a scheme that will work however long the document is or however short the document is.

So we're going to mix this up a bit, what we're going to do is I'm going to change my pen color it's all very exciting, we're going to insert a hash function here so this is going to be a hash function H right? and you know we might use something like sha256 for this.

Now, that will take as you know any message length and turn it into a length of exactly 256 bits which for this purpose is going to help us a lot, we're also probably going to want to add some padding because typically 256 bits is quite short for this kind of signature scheme, so you'd usually sign a longer message than this.

Again, you don't know what the output of the hash is going to be if the hash ends up very very small, right? like in blockchain that could be a security risk we don't take that risk, so we take the document and we summarize it using a hash function maybe we add some padding or some other mechanism like this, and then we encrypt it using the private key so this this arrow here goes away and we're going to take our private key and encrypt it there instead.

So now the verifier's process has to change slightly to basically to match, so we're going to take the document and we're going to hash it and then we're going to possibly add some padding and perform the exact same process, and we can work out whether that unsigned signature which is what we've got is going to match the one that's been decrypted using the public key.

What we will normally do is ship these both off together in a conversation so as an example in tls you will send a bunch of messages to each other and then at some point you will send a certificate that has a public key on it and you will send a certificate verify message in tls 1.3 for example which has a summary of some of the previous messages hashed padded and encrypted using a private key, right? to verify.

So you don't actually send the document because the document is the previous tls messages, right? so you know what that document is we know what it is that we have to be checking against.

Basically you're doing a comparison between what you've already received that you've then hashed padding to and then what you receive as the kind of authorization or confirmation that should be the right thing, how do we we know what panning and stuff? Is that like a system? is it like a set...?

That's a great question, yes so we would usually use something like the probabilistic signature scheme for rsa right and these introduce essentially a formal structure for doing this, they also tend to add something like a salt or a random number which means that messages encrypt differently each time, there's never a secret it's just that it helps with the implementation and the security.

We're talking about any document here
