What is going on guys welcome back to my channel and today we're going to talk about the 51% attack which is this theoretical attack that could happen if a person organization, government or whoever manages to collect 51% of the hashing power on the network.

And so many people know about this attack. This attack is a very famous attack and many new people know about this attack were new to Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. However, not many people really understand exactly how it works and not many people understand what attacker will be able to do, and so this is exactly what we're going to talk about today guys. So that you will know how it works. Also I just came home from singapore, where I spoke about bitcoin scaling at the Block Show Asia.

I also moderated parts of the event, and so I moderated this great panel with broad peers and the founder of 10X and some other very, very heavy weight people in this industry. So it will be on the channel and I can't wait to share that with you. However, I need to get the files I haven't gotten the file, so I'm waiting for the files myself, but as soon as I get them, it will be on the channel.

Also, it was amazing, missing you guys. I met many of the people watching the channel in singapore, we had Ivan on tech meetup where we ate dinners together, so that was amazing, thank you, everyone for coming, and that being said guys, let's get into it.

The first thing we have to understand when we talk about the 51% attack is how the conflicts are resolved on the bitcoin network. So if the network is presented with two different versions of truth, two different chains, what chain will the network choose? Well, the network will choose the longest chain. The chain with the most difficulty amounted in the chain, the most mining difficulty, and so this is very important to understand. This is, in fact, a very fundamental aspect of the bitcoin network that if we have two conflicting versions of truth, we have two conflicting block chains. Then the network will choose the longest chain.

And so now that we understand this fundamental thing, we can move on and talk about the 51% attack, so if I have 51% of the hashing power, what does it mean? What does it really mean? Well, it means that I'm able to mine faster than the rest of the miners. So if we have a competition, if there is a competition, let's imagine there is this, competition between me and the rest of the miners, and the goal of this competition is just to mine as many blocks as possible in the shortest amount of time, who would win? (2:41) Well, I would win because I have more hashing power than the rest of the guys. So if we have this competition, where I'm mining as fast as I can and I create block after block after block after block and the other guys, are mining and also creating block after block after block, and they recreate and they're calculating the proof-of-work norms for each. For each block and I do the same, I would win because I have the most hashing power so now that we also understand that we can, we can see how I can mess up the network, how I can for example, double spend on the network, so how would I double spend is a great question, of course. Let's imagine that I start mining on my own, so I have this one percent of the hashing power, and so what I do with that hashing power? Is that I mind my own blocks without announcing them? So this is the clever part of this attack. Usually, when miners mind you find the block, you announce it to the blockchain, you get your world, but in this case I don't do it so I start mining. Privately I use my hashing power and I start mining privately ansed and I started. Creating my blockchain. Meanwhile I spend my bitcoin on the public chain. I start sending transactions, maybe I buy a car, maybe I buy a house. I use my bitcoin on the public network. However, because I'm minding my own version of the blockchain privately and keep in mind that I am mining faster than everyone else, this is very important. We talk about this composition that I'm competing with the other - I'm mining faster than anyone else and I'm. Creating this. My own version of the blockchain and in this version of the blockchain that I'm mining on my own I do not include these transactions I just made on the bitcoin network. I do not include the transaction where I paid for the house. I do not include the transaction where I paid. For my private jet and my boat, those transactions are on the bitcoin blockchain, the public blockchain, but they are not included in my own private version of the blockchain and because, because I'm able to mine my own private version, faster than those other guys are able to mine, the public blockchain. This means that after a couple of blocks, I will be able to announce my own private version of the blockchain to the network, and the network would accept it because it is longer than the other guises blockchain. As we just talked about in this competition. I have privately now mind my own version of truth. It is longer than the actual blockchain the legit blockchain, because those guys are slower because I have 51% of the hashing power I'm faster than anyone else to mine and because the bitcoin network resolves conflicts by choosing the longest chain, it would pick my own chain, and so in this chain, as I mentioned, I, will not have the transactions I previously made where I paid for my house for my boat. Those transactions are not included in my own version of the truth, which I mined privately and then I now announce it to the public. I, announce it to the network and the network will accept it as the truth because it accepts the longest chain. So I hope you guys understand, because you can think of. it as this competition that I am competing with the other miners and because I have 51% of the hashing power I'm faster than anyone else, meaning that I can spend bitcoin on the public chain while simultaneously minding my own chain and because I have the most hashing power, my own chain will be longer than the actual. You know the legit version of the blockchain and after a couple of blocks, I announce it to the public and the network sees my blockchain and realizes. Alright, this blockchain is longest and it is the truth, and this way I'm able to double spend because I just spend my coins I bought my house I bought I bought my boat, my car. Those transactions got confirmed, but then I announced this new version of the blockchain I announced my own dog chain blockchain, which I mined privately it gets accepted. Those transactions are not in this new blockchain, meaning that I'm now able to spend these coins again. So this is how an attacker could theoretically double spend coins on on the bitcoin network, and this is one thing that an attacker could do. The other thing that an attacker could do is to block certain transactions so because I am the fastest miner, because I have 51% of the hashing power. What I could do is that I could, for example, decide to not accept any transaction from a particular address, so that way, I could basically censor different addresses and say that any transaction from this particular address would just ignore it all, for example, any transactions that goes to this particular address, just ignore it and do not include it in any block, so that is also something I would be able to do as someone who has 51 percent of the hashing power and finally, what would happen is that I'm also able to become the ad monopoly for mining and other miners would simply drop out. Because I'm able to mine all the blocks, all the future blocks and I will get all the block reward, meaning that I will put other miners out of business and soon my 51% attack would increase to 60 and 70 and maybe a hundred percent. If, if everyone else just drops, because no one is getting the mining reward except me, meaning that everyone else will go out of business, not everyone else not be able to continue mining, and this is of course devastating for the network. And if I do any of these things, for example, if I double spend, you can imagine what would happen to the bitcoin price as soon as we have this double spending attack, someone that is able to execute the double spending attack. The whole network is worthless. Bitcoin is worthless, and the same is with if I'm able to block transactions from one address going to another address. If I'm able to block specific addresses that would also make the network useless, because I mean the whole idea is that anyone should be able to use bitcoin and cryptocurrencies, and now we have this censorship going on. So we have to keep in mind that whatever I do I would crush the price of bitcoin. If I, if I become the monopoly on when it comes to mining and I, put other miners out of business, yes, I will become the monopoly, but I mean who would use my my coin? Who would use the blockchain that I mind I? Think no one. So we have to keep in mind that whatever I do with this 51% attack, everything will end up in a very, very significant drop in the bitcoin price, meaning guys, meaning that there is really no incentive for me what at least financial ends incentive to do it. It would cost billions of dollars to execute this attack, and the only thing I would accomplish is that I would remove all trust in bitcoin. No one would ever trust bitcoin any more and thus I would crash the price and not get anything in return, except a crashed. Cryptocurrency which might be enough for a malicious government for example if the government is threatened and really really has to destroy bitcoin I mean theoretically this attack is possible but practically it is very unlikely that someone would do all of this you know investment and really an really push bitcoin to to nothing it's much more profitable to just keep mining and earn your mining reward if if you have so much hardware and so much electricity to to spare so yes I hope you understand the 51% attack more I hope you understand how it works and they leave a like smash that the bail button so you always get notifications and you never miss an update and if you are a new viewer and you like doctoring technology cryptocurrencies you should definitely subscribe to the channel. 