Today, we'll be coding, the erc20 token total supply is the total amount of this erc20 token calling the function. Balance up returns the amount of brc token that the count has the holder of the erc20 token can call the function transfer to transfer his erc20 token over to a recipient instead of calling transfer directly. If the holder of the erc20 token wants to allow another spender to send his token on his behalf, then he'll call the function approve, approving the sender to spend some of his token. How much is a spender allowed to spend from a holder? Well, you can find out by calling the function allowance once a holder about usc20 token approves another spender to transfer his token on his behalf. Then the spender can call the function transfer from transferring from the holder to another recipient for the amount. This is the interface. Let's now write this code, so I'll scroll down, we'll create a erc20 contract, so I'll say, contract erc20 is ierc20, and this means that this contract will implement all the functions that are defined here. Let's start off with the state variables we'll need to keep track of the total supply. Of this token, the total amount of token that was minted, so you'll say unit public total supply. When we meant new tokens, this total supply will increase and when we burn tokens, this total supply will decrease next, we'll create a mapping from address to um, which represents how much each user has a token. So we'll type mapping address to uint this state variable will be public, we'll call it balance when a erc20 token holder calls the function approved, approving the sender to spend some of his token on his behalf. We need to save that somewhere in a state variable, so we'll do that by typing mapping from address, so this will be the owner to another mapping from address. This will be the spender to the amount here. We're storing the data owner approves a spender to spend a certain amount, we'll make the state variable public and we'll call it allowance. Next, we'll store some metadata about the erc20 token name, symbol and decimals, so we'll type string, public name is equal to I'll name. This test symbol, string, public symbol is equal to I'll name, this test with all capitals and decimals unit, eight volume decimals is equal to most erc20 tokens, have a decimal of 18, so we'll also say 18 over here. Decimal means how many zeros are used to represent one erc20 token. For example, us dollars has two decimal places, so 100 cents is equal to one dollar in the same way, decimal equals 18 means 10 to the 18 is equal to one of this token. Now, if you try to compile this contract right now, you'll see that the compilation fails. This is because we have not implemented these functions yet so we'll copy all of this function and then implement it. Let's start with the easy one transfer. This function will transfer the amount of token that message.sender has over to a recipient when we transfer a token from message.sender to the recipient. We want to update the balance up so we'll do that by saying balance of message.sender. We want to subtract the amount, so you'll say minus equal to amount, and we want to increment this amount to the recipient, so you'll say balance of reset recipient increment it by amount when the function transfer is called for the erc20 standard, we need to emit the event transfer logging, the sender which will be message. ender, the recipient will be recipient from the input and amount. And, lastly, we need to return a boolean and we'll return. True. This means that the function to this call was successful allowance. We don't need this function, since we already have it inside the state variable and the next function that we'll work on is approved. Message.sender will be able to approve a spender to spend some of his balance. For the amount, so we'll do that by saying allowance of message.sender to spender is equal to amount. Message.sender is allowing the spender to spend amount of his token. We also need to emit the event, so we'll say, emit approval message.sender to spender amount, and we also need to return a boolean if this function executes correctly. There's no error so we'll return true and the last function that we need to write for this erc20 contract to be complete is transfer from this function will transfer some token from sender to recipient for the amount from the input and this function can be called by anyone as long as the sender has approved message. ender to spend his tokens. So the first thing that we'll do is deduct the allowance, by typing allowance of the sender, to message.sender deducted by amount notice that in solidity, 0.8 overflows and underflows cause the error to a function. So if sender has not approved message.sender to spend this token, then this part of the code will fail since we're transferring the tokens we'll update the balance of sender and recipient by typing balance of sender, we're sending from the sender to the recipient. So we'll decrease the balance of the sender and we'll increase the balance of the recipient and again for transfer from. We also need to emit the event transfer, and this will be from the sender to recipient for the amount. And lastly, we need to return true, meaning that this function executed correctly without any errors, and that completes the erc20 token contract if we hit compile notice that it compiled now so far, there is no way to create new tokens. This function is usually called mint. We have not implemented the function to mint new tokens, usually this mint function is restricted in some way. For example, you can only mint tokens in exchange for sending samif, or maybe only the owner of this contract can mint some tokens for this example. We'll keep it simple and we'll allow message.sender to mint any amount of tokens so I'll scroll down and then we'll implement the function, mint so I'll say, function mint for the input we'll pass in the amount mint. So if you say unit amount, this function will be external when this function is called we'll increment, the balance of message. ender by the amount since we're creating new tokens. We also need to increment total supply, so we'll say total supply incremented by amount they will emit the transfer event by typing. Emit transfer we're not sending existing token from another account. Here we are creating new tokens so for the mint we'll set the sender to address zero, the recipient is message.sender. The amount that was transferred is the amount that was minted. This line of code means from address 0 transfer over to message.sender for the amount amount. In other words, we are creating new tokens, lastly, we'll write the function to burn mint means create new tokens, whereas berm means destroy the tokens from circulation, so we'll say: function burn unit amount. This function will be external, we'll copy. This code paste it here and instead of increasing the balance of message.sender, we'll deduct the amount since we're destroying tokens, we'll deduct it from the total supply and then for the emit event, we'll transfer it from message.sender over to address 0 for the amount amount. These two functions are not part of the erc20 token standard, but you'll usually see a function for mint and burn, and most of the erc20 tokens I'll hit ctrl s to make sure that the contract compiles and we are done with the erc20 token contract

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.10;

interface IERC20 {
    function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256);

    function balanceOf(address _owner) external view returns (uint256 balance);

    function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) external returns (bool success);

    function allowance(address _owner, address _spender) external view returns (uint256 remaining);

    function approve(address _spender, uint256 _value) external returns (bool success);

    function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) external returns (bool success);

    // function name() public view returns (string);
    
    // function symbol() public view returns (string);

    // function decimals() public view returns (uint8);

    event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value);
    event Approval(address indexed _owner, address indexed _spender, uint256 _value);

}

contract ERC20 is IERC20 {
    uint public totalSupply;

    mapping(address => uint) public balanceOf;

    mapping(address => mapping(address => uint)) public allowance;

    string public name = "Test";

    string public symbol = "TEST";

    uint public decimals = 18;

    function transfer(address recipient, uint256 amount) public returns (bool success){
        balanceOf[msg.sender] -= amount;
        balanceOf[recipient] += amount;
        emit Transfer(msg.sender, recipient, amount);
        return true;
    }

    function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) public returns (bool success){
        allowance[msg.sender][spender] = amount;
        emit Approval(msg.sender, spender, amount);
        return true;
    }

    function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success){
        allowance[_from][msg.sender] -= _value;
        balanceOf[_from] -= _value;
        balanceOf[_to] += _value;
        emit Transfer(_from, _to, _value);
        return true;
    }

    function mint(uint amount) external {
        balanceOf[msg.sender] += amount;
        totalSupply += amount;
        emit Transfer(address(0), msg.sender, amount);
    }

    function burn(uint amount) external {
        balanceOf[msg.sender] -= amount;
        totalSupply -= amount;
        emit Transfer(msg.sender, address(0), amount);
    }

}
```

