When you multiply or divided number by two, what you are really doing is shifting the bits that epresent the number in binary to the left or to the right. 

5 = 00101

For example, 5 * 2 is 10, but let's see this in binary. So five in binary is equal to 101, let's add some leading zeros. This is 1 plus 4, because remember, you can convert the number from binary to decimal by multiplying the numbers in the 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 position and so forth, and then summing them up. 

10 = 01010

5 multiplied by 2 is 10, so this is what it would look like in binary, and you can see that this is a left shift. Let's see if this actually worked, this represents the 1 position, 2, 4 and 8, so we are adding 2 and 8 together to get 10. Okay, that checks out. 

5 = 00101 / 2 = 0010

Let's do the division case, if we were to do a right shift by 1, that would be the equivalent of 5 divided by 2 in integers, which is 2. Solidity cannot do floating point division, so this would be 0010 and the 1 would fall off the end, and we can see that this is 2 and 5 divided by 2 is 2 in integer. 

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Regular {

    // 21,469
    function multiplyByTwo(uint256 n) external pure returns(uint256) {
        unchecked {
            return n * 2;
        }
    }

    // 21,450
    function divideByTwo(uint256 n) external pure returns(uint256) {
        unchecked {
            return n / 2;
        }
    }
}

contract Shift {

    // 21,467
    function multiplyByTwo(uint256 n) external pure returns(uint256) {
        return n << 1;
    }

    // 21,445
    function divideByTwo(uint256 n) external pure returns(uint256) {
        return n >> 1;
    }
}
```

To make a comparison between the two. I've removed the overflow and under flow protection because when you shift numbers you do not have this protection in place. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Bitwise operators do not perform overflow or underflow checks](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/control-structures.html#checked-or-unchecked-arithmetic). This is particularly visible when using bitwise shifts (**`<<`, `>>`, `<<=`, `>>=`**) in place of integer division and multiplication by a power of 2. For example `type(uint256).max << 3` does not revert even though `type(uint256).max * 8` would.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



So you will need to think about if this makes sense in the context of your application, when you are doing shifting, multiplying has the possibility of overflowing. So for example, if you shift your 1 values far enough that all of the ones fall off the left side and only zeros are left, then you're going to get an answer that doesn't make sense. But I will talk about how to fix this in the next video. With division, you don't have this problem because it doesn't matter how large a number you divide by, if the denominator is larger than the numerator, it will always be zero in integer division.

I've already been doing plenty of gas benchmarks, so I'm just going to show you the results. This is where the optimizer turned on. We can see that multiplied by 2, then in the traditional way costs 21,469 gas, but when we use shifting, we save 2 gas, and this is not to be a surprise, the opcode for multiplication (**MUL**) is 5 gas, but the opcode for shifting (**SHL**) is 3 gas. In the division case we actually save 5 gas, this is another example of thinking about how to accomplish the same computation with opcodes that are cheaper.